High in this video we're going to take a brief look at classes in Python.
Now this is a subject that will come back to in a lot of detail in the object oriented section of the
cause but I just want to show you some basic things about classes in Python.
You should already know about object or programming.
So a lot of the concepts I'm going to show here should already be familiar but I want to make sure that
you also know how to do it in Python.
I will keep it quite simple.
So let's say that we want to create a class to do so in python we use the class keyword.
So we're going to define a class using class.
So let's go ahead and create a rectangle class.
And now we want our initializers.
Now the initialiser in Python is that is called or is implemented using this donder init method.
Now the Dondre init method is actually a method that runs once the object has been created.
So there's actually two steps when we create an instance of our rectangle class we first have this new
step.
If you come from Java you know about new.
So we get the same thing in Python.
But then the initializer is a step after that after the objects being created then we can go onto the
initialization phase.
So what happens in Python with these instance methods is that the first argument of the method is the
object itself.
So our first argument is going to be the object we typically call itself.
You can call it anything you want.
Right.
You can say you know a new object that was just created right.
You could do something like this.
So this would be the first argument but it's customary and you should use self because everybody knows
what that means.
So self means the instance that was just created and then in addition to this in init method we're going
to require the width and the height and so now we're going to set properties attributes of the class.
In this case they're going to be value attributes so we call them properties as opposed to methods which
are callable essentially.
So this attribute is going to be called with.
So we're going to say self with.
So we're going to say this object that was just created That's called self.
That's what gets passed into this first argument.
Python does that for us.
We don't have to worry about doing that.
So self-talk with equals wit and self-taught height equals height.
And I know if you come from a Java background you're probably kind of screaming right now saying there's
no data encapsulation going on and you'll see why it actually doesn't matter in Python.
So let's go ahead and create this class.
So now there we go we have our class and we can create an instance of that class.
Let's say it with 10 height of 20.
And now we can query the width.
There we go.
We can set the width.
And then we can query the with again.
And we see that we have that.
So that's great.
OK.
We were able to create a very simple class with two properties width and height.
So the next thing we're going to look at is adding attributes that are actually color balls or methods.
So I'm just going to copy paste and let's go ahead and add an area method so Area Not area because an
instance method is going to need to receive the object that we are working on.
So again we'll just use this cell.
So here what do we want to do.
We want to return self data with times self-taught height.
OK.
And let's go ahead and do a perimeter as well.
Really Mr. self again and then we're going to return to times self dot with Clauss self-taught right.
Correct.
So now we have a class that has two properties width and height and two methods area and perimeter that
basically functions.
But there are special functions because they get called using that dot notation.
So for example let's say we do this 10 20.
Now we can again code width and height.
But here I'm going to call area not areas callable so I need to make sure it gets called.
It doesn't require any arguments other than this object.
So why am I not putting it in here.
Well it's actually over here.
When I say all 100 area what Python does it calls this method area that's in the rectangle class.
And it takes on one and passes that as the movement that we've called self here.
So again this doesn't have to be called self.
It could be called you know something.
So I'm just going to show you this is a terrible idea but I'll just show you that this will work just
equally well.
So let's go ahead and rerun that redefine our object.
So now we can call the area and we get indeed 10 times 20 which is 200.
And we can call our R1 dobbed perimeter and we indeed get 60.
So as you can see that worked just fine.
However let's just go back and let's call this cell.
OK.
This is the traditional way of doing it.
And that's the way you should do it to it.
And why not because you have to.
Python doesn't care.
It's other readers of your code if they see something else and perimeter here then self here then I'd
be thinking there's something going on that's different because we have other kinds of things that we
can do we can have class methods we can have static methods.
So if you don't call itself it's not immediately you know visible that this is just an instance attribute.
So be careful with that.
Just stick to the conventions on that one.
So now we've seen with various objects in Python that they have string representations you write you
can usually present your object out like you know an integer or a fraction or decimals and so on they
have string representations lists as well.
So what about our class.
Well let's go ahead let's say a rerun all this.
And let's go ahead and look at string of one and we get this thing over here that says we have a rectangle
object in main.
This is the module we're in the main module at some memory address so this is the memory address of
our one.
In fact we can do X on ID of one.
You'll see that it's the same address 9 3 6 0 and all that stuff in front OK.
So that's obviously not what we want.
We'd like probably you know a little bit better representation like for example saying well it's a rectangle
with this width and height that might be something we want to do.
So this is done.
We can just create basically using a method right.
So let's go ahead and I'm going to copy this code and paste it over here.
And let's add a method let's say def and let's call it two string.
You come from a Java world you know what this is we can call the two string method to get the string
representation.
What do we want to do.
Well we're going to return.
Let's say I'm going to call this this is a rectangle.
And we're going to say the width equals the width and height equals I can type Yeah I can type Pequots
the height.
OK.
And then we'll format this with self dot width and self dot height.
So no let's go ahead and create another rectangle.
Say 10 20 is that over.
And no I can call stream 1 that still brings that out.
Right.
This thing over here.
Why.
Because we need to call to string.
So what we really need to do is to say are one to string.
OK.
So that kind of you know that stinks because we can't use this which is the traditional way of doing
it with the built in classes.
But this is where we can really take advantage of the way Python goes about allowing us to overload
this thing to basically define what does s t mean S T R by default.
You know it's just going to look at the class and the memory address of the object.
So how do we override this essentially and provide our own definition as TR.
Well it's very simple.
We have these special methods that Python has now people call them magic methods but there's nothing
magical about it.
They're well-documented and they're well-known.
Right.
You know so there's no magical Denot hidden or anything like that it's not you know a black box.
So the special method name that we have to use here is called Dunder.
As you are so done domain's double underscore double underscore.
So Dunder s tr and if we do this now we can just rerun this code.
And now you'll notice that when we run s our of our one when we call the T are the builtin s t function
on our object which is a custom class.
We get that string representation.
Now if we just do one and this is kind of specific now to open a notebook and to the Python interpreter
if you're running let's say in a Python console and you just call the object this way or you what happens
is that it's still going to return this.
Now that's not the functionality we get if we have a list let's say we have a list one two three.
Right.
We can we can convert a list to a string.
We get this right.
That's the string representation.
Or we can also just do this.
We can say L and then we get this representation.
Here you'll notice it's not telling us Hey this is a list that some address.
So what's happening is that it's a different special method that we need to implement and we'll get
back to this one.
In a lot of detail as well.
But for now it's called.
Repr it's basically representation and the representation typically is if it's possible a string that
shows how you would build the object up again.
Now in some cases there's too many variables you can do it but in this case we can.
So we're going to choose that.
So how did we actually instantiate this object.
Well we called rectangle and we passed in two parameters we passed in the width and the height.
So let's go ahead and create that.
I'm not going to run it again now.
Our string representation hasn't changed as rectangle with with this 10 hightest 10.
But now if I do it this way you'll notice that I have rectangle 10 20 and so what comes out here this
string.
If I was to execute it it would actually create a rectangle with 10 and 20.
So that's what the representation is used for.
So now how about equality.
Let's say that we have.
So we have this rectangle are 1.
Let's say we have our two equals rectangle and we'll make it the same.
So 0 1 and 2 are basically the same rectangle.
But you'll notice that 0 1 is not true right.
There are different memory addresses the different objects different instances of the class.
But if we do one equals two we get false.
Now we really would expect that you know as a user of rectangle if it's got the same width and height
it's the same thing it's the same value right.
The object might be different but it's the same then.
So how can we do that.
Well that's very simple.
We have again a special method in Python which is the Dunder cube method that allows us to basically
specify and define how we can compare objects to each other.
So let's go ahead and implement that.
Again I'm going to copy this code pasted over here and we're going to basically keep going.
So we're going to implement this.
Done that Q method.
Now the Dunder EQM method is an instance method it's going to take self.
If you look at this line of code all one equals equals are two.
Then there's actually two objects right.
We're comparing two objects so our one is actually going to get passed into the self argument and our
two is going to be the other argument.
So we're just going to call it others.
The other object I'm going to keep this simple initially.
But we will need to add a little bit more to make it more complete.
So for now what do we want.
Well we want to say two rectangles are equal if the width and height are the same.
So let's go ahead and maybe write it this way is equal.
Actually what is going to return it.
So we're going to return self.
That works equals equals.
Other dealt with we want to make sure the with is the same and self dot height equals equals other dot
right.
So we can do it this way.
If you used to topples you could also actually do it this way.
You could say self-taught with comma self-caused height.
This top all should be equal to the other doctor with and other height cave we could do it this way
as well.
However you want to do it.
I think this is more x.
This one is probably a little bit more expressive.
You know when self-taught with people's equals other dot wits and a self that height equals equals.
Other than height I tend to prefer this but up to.
So now let's just make sure this works.
Let's go ahead and create a rectangle size 10 and 20 and do another one.
OK.
Now all one is not up to.
That's true.
The different objects.
However all one is equal to two using equally.
Because in terms of values they are the same.
Now there is one problem though.
Let's say I say all one equals equals 100 k.
We have this problem here.
The object has no attributes with.
Well yeah what happened is that this equal method was run and we're trying to get others up with an
adult height.
Well integers don't have those properties so we need to fix that.
And let me go again.
Just copy paste.
Let's fix this up.
And what we really want to make sure is that other is an instance of rectangle.
Now we'll get into that in later sections but I'm not going to use type type is too restrictive.
If I use type I can find the type of other and it will tell me if it's a rectangle but what it doesn't
handle is if I've subclass rectangle.
And now I want to use the equal method.
If I do if I check the type here to be specifically a rectangle it's not going to work with subclasses.
So in this case what I'm going to do is say if is instance so instance will work with subclasses.
And what is that.
Well I want to make sure that other is an instance of a rectangle.
OK that's one way of doing it.
Or I could use the you know the class property of self but it is of other.
But in this case.
Not sorry of self.
But in this case I'm just going to hand-coded to rectangle because I'm not really looking to for it
to be anything else.
And if I subclass it this is going to be correct because Is instance is going to do that correctly.
So if I have an instance of a rectangle do this else you have to return the not implemented value.
Actually no we're going to return false.
Can't we're just going to say that if you're trying to compare a rectangle to something other than a
rectangle that can't compare equal that's always going to be false.
So we go ahead and write it this way so this is now a little cleaner and we can go ahead and create
all two rectangles again.
I'll copy paste that.
And then one equals equals or two that still works.
And now if we say all one equals equals 100 we get a false which is true right.
That's that's the correct answer.
0 1 is not equal to 100.
Now what about methods like comparisons like less than so operators like less than greater than less
than or equal to.
Well we also have special methods we can use to implement those.
There are methods like Dunder LTI for less than under L E less than or equal Dundon GTY for greater
than under and equal not equal and so on.
And these are all well-documented.
So let's just go ahead and write one.
So again I'm going to take this code.
Copy paste and let's implement the less than.
OK so let's implement less then.
And again we have to write the less than operator is a binary operator has two operation two operands.
So we need self which is going to be the left hand operand and then other which is going to be the right
hand up right.
So let's go ahead and implement that.
When is a rectangle smaller than another one.
We're going to do it based on the area.
Now again it's up to you as the writer of The Quest to define how you want to define you know ordering
in your rectangles.
I'm just choosing to do area.
So again though I'm going to have to check the instance I don't want to try and compare a rectangle
to you know an integer.
So I want to make sure that other is an instance of rectangle and I'm going to return that self-taught
area is less than other area.
OK.
That's all I need to do I need to make sure that the area of my self is less than the area of the other
k.
Whatever this computes to will tell me if it's less than or not and if it's not.
Now here we don't return false.
Right but logically here what I really want is something else.
So instead I'm going to return the not implement advantage.
We'll get to this later but we don't raise an exception.
We just return not implemented this at all different.
OK so now we have that.
Let me go ahead and copy paste these two.
But now I'm going to make a 100 and 200.
So obviously are one's area is less than two.
So now I could say all one is less than two and a name instance is not defined.
What have I done.
If is instance.
Sorry.
OK.
Is instance just like I had a week.
So let's rerun this one is less an hour or two as you can see now actually returns true.
So we implemented less than so.
0 2 is also a rectangle so we could say off to less than 1 obviously and that's false.
What about all too greater than all one.
We haven't implemented great of them but if you look at what happens it returns true.
And that's because what happens is that with our two Python called the Dunder GTY method greater than
it wasn't implemented.
So what it does for us.
It basically flips this around and says OK well if all two's not graded are greater than 1 is not implemented.
How about 0 1 less than 0 2 and in this case where are 1 less than 2.
That less than is implemented.
So it works.
But obviously you're not going to get things like are 1 less than equal to true.
That is not implemented.
So it says it's not supported we would have to implement those ourselves.
Now I want to look at these properties that we had width and height.
And let's go back to a slightly simpler version of class.
We have class Rectangle.
Go ahead and put that in.
I'm just going to take out area and perimeter just to simplify the code a little bit.
OK so we have this class and we saw we can basically say a rectangle 10 coming 20 right.
And then we can look at all one doctor with care.
It tells us what the word is.
We can set the width as well we can say all one with equals let's say negative 100.
OK.
And now if we look at our one dot with well that's negative 100 back or one we can see has a width of
negative 100 and it's hightest to 20.
So a few things going on here.
One is that we're allowing direct access to the Width property and the height as well.
But I'll focus on with which means that in particular uses can set this too negative 100 and we may
want to put logic in here that stops people from setting the width to a negative value.
It doesn't make sense of a rectangle with a negative with a height.
It needs to be positive even zero doesn't make much sense.
So the way you do that in languages like Java for example and in Python as well is we implement methods
to get and set the properties.
So what do I mean by Geter and set of methods.
Well let me show you.
Let's say we write a get a method for basic.
I'm just going to say get with.
And here we're just going to return self not underscore with what self-talk with.
So the first thing I'm going to do here is make width and height private variables.
We don't have private variables true private variables in Python.
There is no such thing.
So instead this is a convention if we put an underscore in front of our variable names in front of our
properties.
Basically we're telling and then Same thing with the methods too by the way we're telling other users
of our class that hey this is a private variable.
Please don't touch it.
Don't modify.
Don't mess around with it.
But of course if they want to they can or something blows up that's their problem that's their fault.
But it's still possible to change it.
Now it might be in some cases that you have you know a user of your class that's knows exactly what's
going on and they may be a reason why they want to change that attribute directly.
What we want to do is we want to encourage people to not use width and height directly but instead to
use the getters and setters.
So we might do it this way.
Let's go ahead and write to get with so we stop with underscore with underscore height and now.
OK well first of all with the string and I'm not going to put it here.
You can put it above.
But let's just fix the string and all these things first because you'll notice that they're using self-direct
with care.
Well in this case I'm going to use the internal that says underscore width and height and do the same
thing.
We have to do that here.
And I have to do that here as well.
Now I've got to be careful here.
I mean I can still do this.
So let's go ahead and do that.
And I'll just I'll I'll come back to this and explain why you got to be a little careful here.
But let's first get this going so I've got all this cell phone call with self underscore Height's I
fixed up my class came.
I had to make all these changes because I changed what this was.
Now what I want to do is I'm going to implement a getter and a set of method.
So let's say get it's self.
So we'll just return self-taught underscored with.
So basically the get with function does nothing more than just return the with OK.
And then we have our set with cell with.
And here we want to do something a little bit different.
We want to stop people from putting in negative values.
And I'm also going to you know not allow zero values I only want positive.
So I'm going to say if it is less than or equal to zero I'm going to raise a value error.
I'm going to say with must be positive
otherwise I'm going to say self-taught underscore with equals with.
So basically now I have a method that I have to call to set the width and.
And I'm going to copy paste those and do the same thing with white
actually.
You know what let me leave out the height just for a minute.
OK.
So let's just work with the with.
So now I have this class that has private pseudo private variables with them hype pseudo private properties
instant properties width and height.
So now I can create my rectangle if I try and read the width.
I have an attribute error.
It has no width Now this one is going to be a little odd if I run this you'll notice that no arrow happens.
Now we'll get back to this later in the calls.
But this is called monkey patching essentially what I've done is I've added a property called with two
or one but I've done this at runtime.
And Python allows us to do that.
So there's a lot of problems going on with it still.
You know this with property is negative 100 but the underscore width is four 10 right.
It was created 10 com 20.
In fact if we print out our one we have 10 com 20.
So there is a lot of things going on here in that.
Now the person said all one dot words and that created a new property.
We also now are able to say or one dot gets width and that's the way that people should be accessing
the width not the underscore this they should be accessing it using get with and to set the width.
Now we have to use the set with property and we can say set it to let's say negative 10.
Now you'll notice what happens now is that we have a value error.
The width must be positive.
That's exactly what we wanted.
So now we can say set with let's say to 100.
And that now work correctly.
In fact we can see the with 100 but you'll notice what happened is that if we had released this class
you know a while back and we had it the way we originally had it then people all over the place were
using our one not with to read and to to set the property.
You know maybe we were using our rectangle class all over our code or maybe a coworker were working
in a team.
Other people are using it and now I go back and I say well no no you can't do that anymore.
You have to use this get and set methods well that just broke everybody's code.
So in Java we usually don't start with the you know what we had before with the there properties.
Instead we always write getters and setters from the get go.
And very often the getters and setters are nothing more than something like this.
We don't even have the rest of that code here.
We start with that.
And what this means is that if we now have to put in logic like this we go ahead and put it into the
set.
And it hasn't broken anybody's code.
So that's one of the main reasons why you you do this you set up your encapsulation this way so that
you can have control over how you get and set the properties.
I'm not even going to talk about calculative properties for now I'm just talking about actual physical
you know concrete properties.
So that's the typical way of doing it.
If you come from a Java background you don't start with this.
OK.
So let me show you why in Python it doesn't actually matter.
So I'm going to keep this but I'm going to copy paste the code and I'm going to show you the Pythonic
way of doing this so I'm not going to implement these things over here.
I'm going to go back to the original class that we had.
OK.
And then go back to this can remove the with the underscore.
OK I'm going to remove the underscore.
I'm going to remove the underscore huge and huge and here in here.
So now I've gone back to my original class.
I can say all one equals rectangle and call me 20.
I can read the widths.
I can set the width.
I can set it to a negative value and I can look at one it tells me OK.
All right so this is what we had before.
That's what we you know released let's say and now we realized that well we really want to stop people
from setting the width to negative 100.
So what's the solution to that.
While the solution is exactly what I showed you before it's writing a set of.
And get it.
But we want to do this without being we are without breaking or backward compatibility.
And Python allows us to do that.
And that's the reason why you don't have to start with getters and setters right away for variables.
So in Python unless you know that you have a specific reason to actually implement a specific getter
or setter that has extra logic you don't implement them you just leave the properties bar that way.
That's perfectly fine.
First of all there's no such thing as private variable.
So anyway people can modify it directly.
And secondly is don't force people to use a getter and setter unless they have to.
And really what happens in Python is that they're not even aware that they're going to be using a getter
and setter if we implement those.
It's going to be transparent but Python is going to have to go through and actually run a method instead
of being able to access with directly.
So if it doesn't have to do that it will be more efficient.
How do we go about doing this.
Well we're going to write a function basically or an instance method that is going to return the with
that's going to be our getter.
But what we do is we use these decorators.
And so we use the special syntax.
Use the at property and we'll get into what decorators are later.
For now I'm just going to use it and we're going to call it quits.
So now this is a method called with.
So here's what I'm going to do is I'm going to go back to using the underscore with an I'm going to
go back to using the underscore height.
OK.
This means that I have to fix things up over here.
Self-taught with self-taught height.
Well maybe maybe not.
Let's see why not.
I'm going to leave that code as is for now.
And let's go ahead and finish up writing the properties.
So I'm going to write a getter for with this is what this is going to enable me to do it saying OK this
function that comes after here is a property.
So it's going to be called width and it's just going to return self duffed underscore with.
And then I'm going to do the same thing with height height self and then return self-taught underscore
height.
OK.
And let me go ahead and run that class.
So now I can go ahead and create this new rectangle and I can read the width.
You'll notice that worked.
But what did it run.
It actually ran.
This function let me just show you.
I'll put a side effect.
Never a good idea to do that.
But with let's call it let's say getting with OK.
And then you run it again and you'll see it's printing out getting with it went through the with method.
But you'll notice how I accessed it and there wasn't a call here.
I didn't say or one dot with parentheses basically because I used this property here.
Python now is able to access the width via the getter and I didn't have to change any code that was
actually using Da'ath with as the direct access to the property before.
So I now have a property that goes through a method for the getter without breaking backward compatibility.
This is why you don't have to do this right off the bat and you should do that right off the bat.
You should only do that if you need to.
In this case I need to because I want to stop people from setting width and height to a non-positive
value.
So I've I've got that the width I have that for the height but of course if I try and set the property
that's not going to work because I don't have a set of.
So now I need to write a set.
So let's go ahead and write the center.
How do we write a set.
Again we have to use a decorator.
And so here the way the decorator works is we have this width property.
So we start with the width and then we say Dot setters and you'll see how this works.
When we deal with decorator's and classes later on in the scores so with that said the name of the method
is actually the same.
OK.
Now don't be confused.
We do not have overloading in Python.
OK.
You don't have overloaded methods.
You know this way.
Don't think that this is like other object on the map or languages where since we have now with that
we need to Pasay and you can say well this is a different signature than this one so it's two separate
functions doesn't work that way in python we don't have the help.
We'll see that later.
But the reason why this is OK is because this Aksa actually modified what this function is.
So this function and this function are not stepping on each other's toes.
All right.
But anyways this is how we do it.
And then here we're going to set the width.
But we want to put in our polls.
We want to say if with less than equal to zero raise value of error with be positive.
Else what are we going to do.
We're going to set our internal width variable to the width that was passed in.
So this is how we create a with setters and let's do the same thing for the height.
I'm just going to copy paste that because most of the code is the same except this becomes heit was
sitting on a height set of height height underscore height height as well.
And this should be height as well.
OK so now we have I'll get as and all setters so we can go ahead and run that and know how this will
work the same as before for getting the value right.
So our one dog with
my doing this wrong because I thought.
That's it's called height.
K so I missed that one.
That's regrew this.
So now with is 10.
Right.
And we can set our wits to negative 100 and now it tells us are you can't the value must be positive.
Now we could do on one dot with equals 100.
And that works.
In fact if we look at the value of one we have a common 20 which is correct.
So you can see that we didn't break backward compatibility compatibility.
We didn't break backward compatibility by implementing getters and setters.
That's because we did this using properties.
So it's OK to leave your properties bare initially until you need to do something in which case go ahead
and implement something like this.
You can do that without breaking backward compatibility.
So this isn't like Java where you should always implement getters and setters from the get go.
Not in Python.
I know I'm rehashing this.
We'll come back to this later.
But that's kind of important.
OK the next thing though is that I want to clean up this code over here.
You'll notice that it's calling self-edit with an self-taught height.
Now there's actually nothing wrong with doing that.
Why.
Why did it work.
Well self-taught words is going to do what it's going to call the With together and it's going to do
what it's going to return underscore with.
So it's perfectly fine leaving that here this way.
Now in this case however maybe I want to avoid calling the method the ghetto method.
And so I might actually you know do it directly.
Kind of depends on I choose not to do that.
Initially I preferred getting and setting my data even inside the class using the getters and setters.
This way if I have any logic in the getter that's being implemented I'm going to pick up that logic
for free.
Right over here and that's kind of what I want.
Right.
But maybe in some cases you want to speed things up.
Maybe there's something and you don't want this extra call to a function in order to get the value just
want to hit it directly.
That's possible too.
OK.
And we'll talk about those kinds of issues later on.
The other thing too is that I want to show you that I could do this I could say on one equals rectangle
minus one hundred twenty and that's perfectly fine.
It allowed me to now create instantiate a rectangle of a negative with I don't want that.
So of course I could go in here and put in a you know if with these less than or equal to zero raise
value error and blah blah blah and so on.
But instead what am I going to do really do this.
I'm going to actually call the setters and then inside my init method and then the set is going to handle
you know raising an exception if it needs to.
Let's go ahead and redo this.
And now let me go ahead and try and run and instantiate this rectangle.
And indeed we get with must be positive.
So again I got that thing for free by using internally the getter in the setters in my class.
All right.
So this is kind of the basics of classes and Python I really wanted you to understand about you know
how you create classes how you define classes how you initialize values inside the class why it's OK
to have their properties in Python classes.
And if you really need to implement getters and setters the best way to do it which is the approach
I just showed you and also the special methods that we have that allows us to bring you know standard
style implementations to our own classes.
Right.
We saw how we could use the built in strength function to actually you know customize how we want our
rectangles string representation to look like that was by using these special Dundon methods.
All right.
Thanks for watching and I'll see you in the next video.